now we're gonna take a look at the
designated hitter or the D H now this is
a specialized position a modern
invention of baseball that only exists
in the American League in professional
baseball it's a little bit different da
Qing in Little League or AAU Legion ball
and on the collegiate level
well focus primarily on the major league
designated hitter again only exists in
the American League and this is a person
who doesn't play defense his sole
responsibility is to hit the ball David
Ortiz is a very prominent designated
hitter for the Boston Red Sox Jason
Giambi has filled that role for the New
York Yankees lately your D H is
generally a power hitter who can also
hit for some average generally a larger
player who can hit the home runs you're
gonna expect your D H to hit between 25
and 35 home runs a year you really want
this guy to be a Big Bopper and the
American League feel generally bat
either fourth or fifth he's generally
not very skilled at defense or at least
his hitting skills far exceed his
defensive skills and there are better
defensive players on the field the d h
again is a modern invention it did not
exist in baseball prior to the 70s and
it does not exist in the National League
a lot of people consider National League
pure baseball because the pitcher bats
in the Major League Baseball in the
American League the designated hitter
takes the place in the batting lineup of
the pitcher pitcher is generally your
worst hitter on the team because he has
the least opportunity to practice
hitting most of time he's going to
practice pitching so in the American
League they let the D H take the cuts
instead the D H does serve the purpose
of allowing some of your aging power
hitters to remain in the game Rafael
Palmeiro was an example of that as was
Jose Canseco and Juan Gonzalez these
guys would have been out of the game
earlier in their careers had they not
been able to go and play in American
league ballparks and play D H because
their bones their bodies just couldn't
keep up to the day-to-day
playing in the field so while the d-h
may not be a purist choice it does serve
a great purpose allowing us to see some
of these superstars play and extend
their careers but again the d h he bats
every inning he takes up a regular spot
in the batting lineup generally fourth
or fifth and he does bat every inning
and his responsibility is just to hit
the ball